1 Therefore, holy brothers and sisters, partakers of a heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our confession: Jesus;
2 He was faithful to Him who appointed Him, as Moses also was in all His house.
3 For He has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, by just so much as the builder of the house has more honor than the house.
4 For every house is built by someone, but the builder of all things is God.
5 Now Moses was faithful in all God’s house as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were to be spoken later;
6 but Christ was faithful as a Son over His house—whose house we are, if we hold firmly to our confidence and the boast of our hope.
7 Therefore, just as the Holy Spirit says, “Today if you hear His voice,
8 Do not harden your hearts as when they provoked Me, As on the day of trial in the wilderness,
9 Where your fathers put Me to the test, And saw My works for forty years.
10 “Therefore I was angry with this generation, And said, ‘They always go astray in their heart, And they did not know My ways’;
11 As I swore in My anger, ‘They certainly shall not enter My rest.’ ”
12 Take care, brothers and sisters, that there will not be in any one of you an evil, unbelieving heart that falls away from the living God.
13 But encourage one another every day, as long as it is still called “today,” so that none of you will be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin.
14 For we have become partakers of Christ if we keep the beginning of our commitment firm until the end,
15 while it is said, “Today if you hear His voice, Do not harden your hearts, as when they provoked Me.”
16 For who provoked Him when they had heard? Indeed, did not all those who came out of Egypt led by Moses?
17 And with whom was He angry for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness?
18 And to whom did He swear that they would not enter His rest, but to those who were disobedient?
19 And so we see that they were not able to enter because of unbelief.